---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Guest Post - Ed Eykholt - LivelyGig Adopts Synereo’s Technology Implementation
date: '2015-04-15 16:00:00 +0200'
---

Hi, I’m Ed Eykholt, Founder and CEO of LivelyGig. We are building a
decentralized and distributed employment market. I appreciate the
invitation from the Synereo team to post on their blog. Let me tell
you a bit more about LivelyGig, how we came to learn about Synereo,
and how we look forward to working collaboratively with Synereo.

LivelyGig is an early-stage startup, and one of our driving
motivations is to provide for better social interaction between the
supply and demand participants for freelance work (gigs). These
participants are freelance workers and their clients, typically
project managers. Currently, they manage their profiles, tasks, and
employment contracts in different systems. Freelancers are often
frustrated by delayed payments, diluted earnings potential due high
commissions, and lack of fair reputation systems. Clients have a
challenge finding the right freelancer talent and don’t know which
ones to trust.

Once integrated with LivelyGig’s distributed and decentralized service
and API, providers of task management and freelance job sites will be
better connected and have incentives to optimize how they share and
best connect gigs with talented workers.

When the LivelyGig team researched the available technology stacks
which it might leverage to realize this vision, we found Synereo – a
fully decentralized and distributed social platform.  I was
immediately impressed by the parallels in terms of each system’s
social interactions. Synereo and LivelyGig both use *attention economy
model *principles, which include providing participants some reward
for attending to content that might be mutually beneficial and for
building trust. In the case of LivelyGig, this interaction starts with
the parties finding each other either via search or being
introduced. Their agreement to enter into a conversation is the
initial phase of a *private, social contract* that is the basis for
the next stages, including *smart contracts* for work and payments in
Bitcoin.

With LivelyGig and Synereo, it is essential for these distributed and
decentralized interactions to be based on distributed identity and a
trust mechanism between parties that is dynamic – starting out weak
and then growing or fading as the parties find the relationship
mutually beneficial. As more trust and reputation is granted the
interactions can become more serious. On Pinterest you might share
your cat pictures – *for amusement*. On Synereo, you can form social
relationships where you know you are likely to really care about the
content the other is sharing – *for meaningful connection*. On
LivelyGig, you develop enough trust where you are willing to commit
serious time and money – *for your livelihood*.

These parallels that the LivelyGig team noticed in Synereo’s attention
economy, social contracts, and interactions piqued our interest in
Synereo’s technology stack, especially when compared with other
available options for a distributed and decentralized
infrastructure. Ed was impressed by how social interactions are
modeled by software agent interactions in Synereo’s SpecialK
architecture and how these interactions are directly reflected in the
runtime implementation. Plus, SpecialK’s foundation in solid
mathematics and recent demonstrations gave him confidence the solution
will be successful, both for Synereo and for LivelyGig.

Ed reached out to Lucius Greg Meredith, Synereo’s Chief Science
Officer, to better understand Synereo. As the conversation evolved,
both Ed and Greg realized the potential for collaboration. The rest of
the leadership team met and discovered that an employment market
offering has been on Synereo’s product roadmap, along with other
solutions requiring high-trust interaction.

The high-level LivelyGig-with-Synereo architecture is depicted below:

![image alt text](/img/uploads/livelygigarch.png)

The LivelyGig team looks forward to supporting and collaborating with
Synereo on providing these distributed and decentralized solutions to
a population who values private and free interactions.

For more information, visit [www.LivelyGig.com](http://www.livelygig.com) where you can sign up for updates and view our whitepaper. I can be reached at [Ed@LivelyGig.com](mailto:ed@livelygig.com).

